In part 1 we witnessed dumb and dumber
get trapped in a crawl space by alligators
with a category 5 hurricane arriving. Haley
tried to get her phone to call 911 and got
snapped up in the process. In part 2 we will
see if we can escape the crawl space alive,
and beat the gator-icane in, Crawl.
I want to backtrack a bit because I forgot
to riff on this in the past video, but
the fact that it’s a common myth to zig
zag when being chased by an alligator is bad and
definitely not an effective strategy at all.
Yah, they can course correct way faster than a
human. Your only advantage is your top speed and
endurance. You need to get out of their
short attack range as fast as possible,
and zig zagging just slows you down.
Okay, where were we. Ah, yes, Haley’s
leg is stuck inside a 1 ton alligator's
mouth and is getting thrashed around
like Dicaprio in The Revenant.
Speaking of the bear attack in the Revenant,
which would you guys rather get killed by,
a bear, or a gator? I’m inclined to say a
bear, because I'd rather die to a majestic
animal than a swamp monster, but Joe Rogan
said that bears are likely to just pin you
down and eat you while you’re alive. Getting
chomped on and drowned by death roll would suck,
but at least the gator wants you dead as soon
as possible. I don’t know, tough choice.
Haley stomping its eyes instead of
floundering like fish out of water
makes me want to up her score back to a
5/10, but she shouldn’t have put herself
in this position in the first place, so nah.
The gator releases it’s grasp and she manages to
hobble off on her certainly broken leg, only
to get cornered by another 1 ton beast.
What the hell are they feeding these things?
Somehow shoving rodent traps over their heads is
an effective strategy and foils the gator’s
ambush. While they are distracted she makes
her getaway by crawling headfirst into a web of
cables. I know it’s a stressful situation and all,
but she easily could have low crawled underneath
the cables instead of right into them.
Just when the gator is about to take a
chunk out of her she breaks free.
What is the other alligator doing,
don’t tell me it’s still banging
its head against the wall trying
to get the squirrel trap off.
Haley is running out of options, but stumbles past
a screwdriver her dad lost when he was attacked,
and did what he obviously didn’t
do, stab it in the eye.
This buys her enough time to slip into a crawl
space within the crawl space, where the now
pissed off alligator can’t get to her.
Well, was going for the phone worth it? I’m
telling ya, you should have just broken
the wood floor above you and hopped out.
If you’d just listen to me, I could save
you a lot of pain and tragedy.
Roughly translated, it’s saying, “come on out
bitch, try that again and see what happens.”
Haley uses this breathing room
to assess her leg situation.
Can you imagine getting viciously attacked,
narrowly escaping, and then because you’re
so pumped on adrenaline pain-killers that you
literally have no idea how bad your injuries are.
Logically, you know you got absolutely mangled.
It could be a couple bite holes in your leg,
or your leg could be hanging on by
a thin piece of flesh. But you have
to remove your clothing to know for sure.
It’s actually not that bad all things considered,
but she’s definitely not keeping that
swimming scholarship. Thanks Dad.
Haley tries to stunt the bleeding
by applying a makeshift tourniquet.
If you’ve seen my other video, you’d already
know she’s going about it all wrong.
You should only apply tourniquets if
the bleeding is extreme and unable to
be stopped by direct pressure. What’s extreme?
When your description begins with, holy shit,
that’s a ton of blood. A good example is
the medic in Saving Private Ryan.
God it hurts to remember that scene.
Yes, Haley’s bleeding a fair bit, it’s not
like she got a papercut, but I wouldn't say it’s a
holy shit that’s a ton of blood type of situation.
She needs to uncover the full extent of her
injuries by ripping and removing the clothing
surrounding the wound, and checking all around it.
You don’t want to find out that the warm puddle of
water you’re sitting in, it’s not water.
Judging by the color of the blood with the
flashlight on it, and how it’s slowly
pouring out, I'd say it’s a cut vein.
Possibly the subsartorial vein.
Venous bleeding is easier to stop because it
has lower pressures, and should only need 10-15
minutes of direct pressure. Once she controls
the bleeding, she’ll need to dress the wound. If
the wound bleeds through the first dressing, she
needs to apply another on top. If the wound bleeds
through the second dressing, only then should she
consider alternative options to stop the bleeding,
like applying a tourniquet around her thigh.
Haley mistakenly thinks that her bleeding
can’t be controlled by direct pressure,
so she rips off some thin cloth from her tactical
capris pants and ties it around her leg.
Couple problems here.
She’s using way too thin of a material, she would
be better served by ripping a large enough piece
of clothing that she could fold into something
1.5-2 inches in thickness. The cord from her
capris is too thin and will cause localized nerve
damage. If she had any chance of saving her leg
and that swimming scholarship, it’s gone now.
Her placement is decent. It should
be 2 inches above the wounded area
because severed veins or arteries can
contract further up into the body.
The next problem is that she ties it up
like it’s a shoelace. She needs to use
that screwdriver as a windlass to crank the
tourniquet tight. If it’s not tight enough,
it either won’t stop the bleeding, or it
can actually increase the blood loss.
The remaining problem is that she didn’t record
when she put the tourniquet on, which doctors
need to safely treat her, when, or at the
rate things are going, if she gets out.
They probably only have a couple of hours
maximum before this crawl space and the
roads are completely flooded, making escaping near
impossible. Even a few feet of water will severely
impair their ability to move around and
use weapons. Which are really the only
two advantages they have right now.
Their window for survival is rapidly closing.
They need to break through the ceiling with the
shovel, or run for the basement entrance using
the shovel to fend the gators off. Especially
with more gators showing up to the party.
Instead of breaking through the ceiling with
the shovel, big brains is using it as a crutch
to scoot around. Where he’s going, I don’t even
think he knows. How he’s not in excruciating pain
by now, I have no clue. Initially I could
understand his confusion as he might have
been in shock. But he’s fairly calm and lucid.
The pain should be overwhelming by now.
Not to mention all the bacteria in his open wound
from the gator teeth, and the disgusting sewer
water. Dave will be lucky to keep his leg at this
point, Haley too with that shitty tourniquet.
Haley wants to go to the front of
the house to try to call for help,
which is confusing because her phone is destroyed,
everyone has evacuated already, and your voice
won’t carry at all in this hurricane. She’s
just risking her life for no reason again.
Meanwhile, Dave kicks his broken leg up onto a
wall and tries to cinch his tibia back into his
leg with the toolbelt.
Sigh.
1. This should have been done a long time ago,
preferably with Haley’s help in the safe area.
I could understand why she didn’t
check and treat his leg initially,
because it was more important to get them
out of the dangerous area first. That and
she had no first aid or medical training.
2. If you’re an incompentent moron like Dave,
you should not be setting the broken bone. Trying
to squeeze your jagged exposed tibia back into
your leg could cause more internal damage and
bleeding by severing arteries, muscles, ligaments,
and tendons. It’s also going to be obscenely
painful and you’ll likely pass out trying,
and with gators preying on you, now’s
not a good time to pass out.
3. Using a toolbelt as a splint is an order of
magnitude dumber than Haley using essentially
a shoelace as a tourniquet and attempting to cut
circulation off of her femoral artery by looping
the left bunny ear around the right bunny
ear and pulling it tight. He needs to find
two ‘rigid’ objects that are long enough
to stabilize both joints above and below
the fracture point. So his ankle and knee.
He could unscrew or break off some pipes,
or dare I say, pop off the wood planks
above him, then use his shirt and belt to
tie them around his leg. The whole point of the
splint is to immobilize the joints and wound,
so using a leather toolbelt has got to
be the worst thing you could choose.
Haley gets to the porous brick wall and see’s some
people in a boarded up gas station 50 yards away,
and proceeds to yell help, as if they could hear
her. They couldn’t have heard you even if there
wasn’t a hurricane. It’d be more effective to
strobe your flashlight, which she does, and
surprisingly it gets the looters attention.
Too bad it’s a full on gator-pocalypse now.
I’m beginning to think that these are not normal
alligators. The most plausible explanation is that
a nearby gator farm owner was running experiments,
and breeding them for intelligence and aggression.
That or they installed Neuralink brain
machine interfaces to control the alligators
so they could murder their annoying
neighbor, Dave, without suspicion.
Or they were just hungry gators from a flooded
farm that should have had higher fences.
The ATM, I get. What I don’t get is risking your
life for a couple three day old cold hotdogs
and 2 dollar sunglasses. I’m not sure I brought
enough Darwin awards to hand out to everyone.
Haley, taking her dad’s shitty advice once again,
tries to make it to some access hatch location,
supposedly it’s another
way out of the crawl space.
Except it’s blocked. Wonder what dumbass put a
bunch of heavy boxes right on top of it.
Maybe, for the millionth time, break the wood
planks or pry them off with the screwdriver or
piece of metal nearby. I know it’s not as easy
as simply judo chopping a hole in the floor,
but you’d think being at the precipice of
death would ignite the required ferociousness
necessary to break down walls.
If she could break to the topside, she could
grab Sugar and call off this rescue mission. Dave
doesn’t need your help, remember. I’m sure he can
hobble out of there himself with his toolbelt
splint slash tourniquet. She has already sunk
a lot of sacrifice into his extraction, so
she might as well see it through. She should
make it to the first floor, have him yell, find
his location, then use the tools by the sink,
in the garage, or from his truck to break the
wood floor above him, then pull him out.
Judging by the rate of water flowing in, and the
radio saying the levees would likely break soon,
they will drown if they don’t
figure this out soon.
Beth’s ex-boyfriend fling shows up
to check on Dave after all.
It’s a good thing he didn’t only visit his
condo, but also the old escrowed house.
This fling really knows a lot about this
family for supposedly just being a fling.
I’m sensing some stalker vibes here.
While Wayne is trying to rescue two wounded
survivors before the storm surge hits, Wayne’s
partner takes up the important task of checking
out the mysterious swingset that's getting
tugged on by something in the floodwaters.
I’m not sure why the swingset is so captivating
to him, literally any random object could be
pulling against it. It’s also inadvisable to
be walking around in the floodwaters because
there could be potholes, downed power lines, sharp
objects, fast moving objects in the current..
...and hungry alligators.
Again, realistically speaking this would
be extremely unlikely. But, it is possible,
which is why you want to keep your hands
and feet inside the boat at all times.
Wayne finds the two bozos and radio’s what’s
left of his partner to grab the snare pole
and help him fish the gators out.
In this fictional world with gators this
strong and aggressive, I don’t think a snare
pole is a viable option. Where would they even
put the gator once they snare it. Outside?
It could easily swim back over. And with
flood waters rapidly rising they really don’t
have time to waste playing let’s go fishing.
Wayne just needs to just break up the wood floor
above them so they can get the fuck out ASAP.
Go Haley! Wayne getting mauled is the perfect
distraction for you to make your escape.
He’s putting up quite the fight too, so you
should have plenty of time to swim to the exit.
I know i’m going to get shit for saying
this, but he really is a lost cause.
Haley opts to use Wayne’s brutal
death to make a break for her dad.
I honestly don’t know where anything is in this
maze. I know it’s Haley’s childhood house, so
maybe she has a better sense of direction, but
still, it seems like you could easily get turned
around and find yourself in a dead end. Especially
since you couldn’t actually see where you were
swimming in the dark murky sewage water.
The second gator locks on to her and tries to
chase her down, but it’s no match for an
average collegiate swimmer with clothes
on and a shitty tourniquet applied
around her severely wounded leg.
Maybe these gators have gotten fat
and slow from having their blood
diverted to digesting the cops and looters. It
does take 2-3 days for gators to digest most
prey. Not something I'd count on though.
What a smart decision. She could have escaped
the basement and saved both their lives. Now
they both get to drown in each other's embrace.
Just when all hope seems lost, Dave gives her
a motivation talk about perseverance.
He says that when Haley was little, her sister
Beth could make it the length of the pool on
one breath, when Haley couldn’t. And that
night at 2:00 o’clock in the morning he heard
Haley outside in the pool trying to achieve a
one-breath lap too. Isn’t that pretty dangerous,
being in a pool by yourself as a kid,
nobody around or awake, trying to see how
long you can hold your breath underwater.
Pretty sure that’s how people drown.
As they say, if you’re gonna be dumb, you gotta
be tough. With all the heart to heart talks
Dave’s giving, you’d think he would apologize or
at least show some remorse for causing this entire
disaster and getting multiple people killed.
The latest strategy Dave devised is to bang
on the pipes while Haley swims to the basement
entrance. He seems to think that banging on the
pipes earlier made the alligators angry or
disoriented, and that doing so should buy
her enough time to get past them. What evidence
does he have for this? Absolutely nothing.
Alligators are tuned to pick up sensitive
vibrations in the water, so banging on pipes
could provide some light auditory cover for Haley.
This plan doesn’t account for alligators being
primarily vision-based hunters. You
can bang on the pipes all you want,
but if they spot her, she’s dead.
The other problem with the pipe banging tactic,
is that it will draw the alligators right to
him. I still have no clue where they are now,
but he should go to that blocked off safe
area before banging on the pipes.
Let’s say that breaking through to the ceiling
wasn’t possible, what should they do. I do think
that hatch that Haley tried to open is still
their best. It’s a potential escape point and
blocked off from gators. If both of them can make
it there, I'm sure they could force it open.
If not, then well, yah trying to create some form
of diversion or distraction while someone goes for
the entrance is the best you can hope for. Haley
could use the shovel to sever Dave’s lower leg
off completely, then use that as bait while they
swim for the stairs. Sorry Dave, but I think you
need to take one for the team.
Haley mistakenly listens to her dad,
yet again, and attempts to outswim the alligators.
Dave also mistakenly doesn’t go to the blocked off
area before banging on the pipes, and draws the
attention of the second gator. I don’t see how
either of them will realistically survive this,
but they do have immense strong plot armor.
No way he could have seen the gator coming, been
able to initiate the trap with any certainty,
timed it correctly, nor guarantee that the
trap would actually injure it or hold it down.
Barry got extremely lucky here.
The gator is still a threat, so he
starts bashing it’s head with a brick.
Alligator hides are super thick and dense,
especially on these 800 pound monsters, so
unsurprisingly this doesn’t work.
Dave then tries shoveling it.
In the movie he lodges it in the brain stem
of the gator, but I’m also skeptical of the
effectiveness of a shovel against an alligator.
Daves in a confined space, severely injured,
and trying to swing a full length shovel at
a thrashing gator that’s underwater. I don’t
think he’d be able to project enough force to
break through the hide and kill the gator.
At this point, he didn’t really have any other
options other than to fight like hell with what
he had. But that’s exactly the problem, they
didn’t need to let it get to this point. If
you go rock climbing without a harness
and get tired halfway up the cliff face,
you’re fucked. The solution would have
been to rope up in the first place.
Haley makes it to the stairs, but one of the
gators is still there so she decides to one
up her dad’s shitty plan by diving through
the drainpipe to make it outside. The drain
pipe which leads to the floodwaters outside where
Wayne’s partner and all the looters got massacred,
and which the gators have been using to go in and
out of their house. Seems like a bad idea. Someone
needs to tell Haley that we are apex predators
because of our superior brains and intellect,
not because some of us are decent swimmers.
Do they have a lagoon under their house,
where the hell is this and why does it exist? I’m
sure Haley isn’t putting 2 and 2 together here,
but the abundance of rotting corpses is
strongly indicative of an alligator nest. This
is like their food cabinet. Haley basically
pulled a Liam Neeson in the movie The Grey
where he was trying to flee from the wolves, but
accidentally trekked right into their den.
Woops.
I know Haley and Dave don’t really have
an option here, but I can’t imagine how bad the
infections will be from ingesting, swimming in,
and bathing their severe open wounds in this
disgusting water filled with rotting carcasses,
feces, mold, rats, and god knows what else. That
is, if they somehow survive long enough to get to
a hospital, which doesn’t seem likely.
Mama gator doesn’t look too happy about
you fucking around in her nest.
One of the corpses has a pistol on it,
so she snags it and pulls the trigger on
where she thinks the alligator is.
The only thing louder than a bang when you need
it, is a click. She must have known her way
around guns because most people would just freak
out and not be able to fix the problem.
She recognized that the gun had a failure
to fire when it presented an audible click.
This means the slide was locked forward
and the firing pin dropped fully,
indicating that the issue was either a bad round
or an empty chamber. The solution in this case
is called a tap rack bang. Tap the base of
the magazine to ensure it is fully seated.
Rack the slide to get a fresh round in the
chamber, and the bang part should be obvious.
The gator absolutely ate those 13
rounds. Shame it also swallowed the
Glock too. Could’ve been useful later on. I’m
not sure if those gunshots would scare or attract
more gators. Best to keep moving.
Haley makes it to the drain pipe which
will probably lead her into a
more dangerous situation.
Man, none of this would have happened if
the drain pipe had a proper covering on it.
Why was it even broken like this.
Haley’s got lungs of steel,
but a couple air bubbles tickle the
gator and alerts it to her presence.
Let me guess, she outswims it. Yep.
I still wouldn’t feel safe at all being on land.
Gators are still fast and deadly out of the
water, especially these fictional ones.
Haley tries to wave down a helicopter while Dave
is sucking his last breath out of the floorboards.
At the rate of water flow, the helicopter wouldn’t
be able to provide help in time, even if it could
spot you. Getting your dad out before he
drowns should be the first priority..
If the water gets any higher, he won’t be able to
let Haley know where he is under the floorboards.
Sugar’s like, hey idiot grab the crowbar and break
the wood up, which i’ve been barking at you to do
this whole time.
…
It literally was that easy. A couple seconds of
hitting the planks and they shattered into pieces.
Fucking hell guys. All this devastation
could have easily been avoided.
Dave already drowned, so hopefully Haley
knows CPR. Done correctly, CPR has a 90%
resuscitation rate for people who recently
drowned and were removed from the water.
Haley, isn’t doing them correctly. Her
compressions are far too fast and shallow,
and she should be doing 30 of them
between breaths. There’s not enough
pressure to circulate his blood,
His head is tilted back with his chin up,
and she is pinching his nose and providing
respiration, but she isn’t providing 2 one second
breaths and watching for his chest rising. Her
weak breaths won’t be able to force enough oxygen
into his lungs. Of course when she gives up
and beats on him like a drum he wakes up.
Now that Dave’s conscious again,
you need to get to the roof,
a gator could make it through
that hole and snatch you like
Wayne. The flood waters are also rising rapidly
so escaping by vehicle won’t be an option.
What.. Haley you just swam out of waist high
flood waters. You’ve witnessed looters and
cops using boats. How is getting to the
car even an option in your head. The apple
doesn’t fall too far from the tree.
This definitely is not a cat 5. If it was,
they wouldn’t be able to stand outside due
to the wind speeds. They would literally
take flight. Boats would not be an
option. Helicopters would definitely
not be an option. Hell, you wouldn’t even need
to go outside to know it wasn’t an option. The
hurricane must have lost some steam at landfall,
or they are nearing the eye of the storm.
Bad idea. One. the boat probably got damaged
in the attack. Two, they’d have to cross a
huge distance to get to it. Three, wading through
floodwaters is dangerous for reasons I've already
mentioned in this video. Four, you won’t be able
to control the boat against the currents. Lastly,
and obviously, because there’s a handful
of aggressive hungry alligators which have
already slaughtered numerous people.
Sure, the levee’s may break and your home
might get wiped out, but that’s a small chance
given the low category rating of this hurricane.
The overwhelming priority should be getting
as far from the gators as possible.
Even if you did want to use a boat, I'd try to
find the patrol boat and untangle it’s propeller,
or just use the boat that’s in your garage.
I’m about to give up here. No splashing,
no hunting? You think you can just tiptoe 50
plus yards past a bunch of hunting alligators
in the debris filled floodwaters on a broken leg
that isn’t properly splinted, while holding a dog
when as you said, the levee is about to break
and an immense storm surge is imminent.